README.md, before:

plugsink
========

plugsink is a bidirectional IMAP/Maildir synchronisation tool.
It synchronises one IMAP folder with one Maildir folder, then optionally
waits for a change to either the IMAP folder (using the IDLE command) or
to the Maildir folder (using the inotify API) before synchronising again.
I wrote it for me, but you might like it, too.

**WARNING**: Use at your own risk.

plugsink is known to work with GMail, and was tested against Dovecot
during its earlier development. I don't know if anyone else uses it,
or has tested it with other IMAP servers.
plugsink does not send the EXPUNGE command (yet) so it should not
permanently delete your mail from the IMAP server, nonetheless I suggest
you do your own testing. And read the source code.


Requirements
============

  * Linux system (the inotify API is used, so other Unix-like systems will
    require some porting effort)

  * Mercury compiler (release-of-the-day); available at
    <http://dl.mercurylang.org/index.html>

  * OpenSSL


Compiling
=========

With Mercury installed and `mmc` in your PATH, run:

    make PARALLEL=-j6

If successful, you will get a binary named `plugsink`.


Invocation
==========

Run it like this:

    plugsink CONFIG-FILE PAIRING

The configuration file can be placed anywhere you like.
See `plugsink.conf.sample` for the details.

The *pairing* argument names the pair of Maildir folder and IMAP folder to
be synchronised.  For example, if the configuration file contains:

    [pairing All Mail]
    local = All Mail
    remote = [Google Mail]/All Mail

then running the command `plugsink config-file "All Mail"` will synchronise
the IMAP folder "[Google Mail]/All Mail" with the local folder `All Mail`
under the top-level Maildir directory.


Idling
======

After the initial synchronisation cycle, plugsink can maintain an open
connection to the IMAP server if the configuration key is set:

    [imap]
    idle = yes

Once a change is made to the Maildir folder, or a change is made to the
IMAP folder, a new synchronisation cycle will be performed.

Send a `SIGINT` signal (Ctrl-C) to the process to tell it to quit.

Send a `SIGUSR1` signal to the process to start a new synchronisation
cycle immediately.


What is synchronised
====================

New messages detected on one side since the last synchronisation cycle will
be copied to the other side, and vice versa.

Flag additions or removals on one side are applied to corresponding messages
on the other side, and vice versa.  The standard Maildir flags are mapped to
the IMAP system flags:

    R       \Answered
    F       \Flagged
    T       \Deleted
    S       \Seen
    D       \Draft

Other IMAP flags are recorded in the database but not otherwise visible as
there is no standard way to express them in Maildir.

plugsink does not permanently delete messages from the Maildir folder.
If a message in the IMAP folder is deleted then the corresponding Maildir
message will be marked as deleted -- the message gains the `T` flag.
If you access the Maildir through a mail client and use its "expunge"
function then it will probably permanently delete the messages so marked.

plugsink does not issue the EXPUNGE command to permanently delete messages
from the IMAP folder.  If a message in the Maildir folder is deleted then
the corresponding message in the IMAP folder will only be marked as deleted
-- the message gains the `\Deleted` flag.  If you access the IMAP folder
through a mail client and use its "expunge" function (or similar) then it
will permanently delete the messages so marked.

Note: GMail has an Auto-Expunge option.  When enabled (the default), a
message will be removed from the IMAP folder as soon as it is marked
deleted.  The message should still be available in another folder (label)
such as "All Mail" or "Trash".  I have this option enabled and it seems
okay.


Warning
=======

Be aware of what is known to the state database.  For now, this requires
poking around the state database with SQLite commands.

Here is a bad sequence of events:

 1. you synchronise a Maildir folder `Foo` with an IMAP folder `RemoteFoo`
 2. you rename `Foo` to `Bar`
 3. you create a empty folder `Foo`, and synchronise the new `Foo` with
    `RemoteFoo` again

The user's intention may have been to re-download all the `RemoteFoo`
messages into `Foo`.  Instead, plugsink thinks that all the messages it
knew about from `Foo` have been deleted, and proceeds to mark all the
corresponding messages in `RemoteFoo` as deleted.

In the future we may try to prevent such bad behaviour, somehow.


Debugging
=========

Set the environment variable `DEBUG_IMAP=1` to trace IMAP commands and
responses.


Author
======

Peter Wang <novalazy@gmail.com>

Commit message:

Add --allow-mass-delete option.

README.md, after:

plugsink
========

plugsink is a bidirectional IMAP/Maildir synchronisation tool.
It synchronises one IMAP folder with one Maildir folder, then optionally
waits for a change to either the IMAP folder (using the IDLE command) or
to the Maildir folder (using the inotify API) before synchronising again.
I wrote it for me, but you might like it, too.

**WARNING**: Use at your own risk.

plugsink is known to work with GMail, and was tested against Dovecot
during its earlier development. I don't know if anyone else uses it,
or has tested it with other IMAP servers.
plugsink does not send the EXPUNGE command (yet) so it should not
permanently delete your mail from the IMAP server, nonetheless I suggest
you do your own testing. And read the source code.


Requirements
============

  * Linux system (the inotify API is used, so other Unix-like systems will
    require some porting effort)

  * Mercury compiler (release-of-the-day); available at
    <http://dl.mercurylang.org/index.html>

  * OpenSSL


Compiling
=========

With Mercury installed and `mmc` in your PATH, run:

    make PARALLEL=-j6

If successful, you will get a binary named `plugsink`.


Invocation
==========

Run it like this:

    plugsink [OPTIONS] CONFIG-FILE PAIRING

The configuration file can be placed anywhere you like.
See `plugsink.conf.sample` for the details.

The *pairing* argument names the pair of Maildir folder and IMAP folder to
be synchronised.  For example, if the configuration file contains:

    [pairing All Mail]
    local = All Mail
    remote = [Google Mail]/All Mail

then running the command `plugsink config-file "All Mail"` will synchronise
the IMAP folder "[Google Mail]/All Mail" with the local folder `All Mail`
under the top-level Maildir directory.

Command line options
--------------------

`--test-auth-only`

    Try logging into IMAP server only; don't synchronise.

`--allow-mass-delete=NUM`

    Allow a one-off synchronisation cycle even if more than NUM messages
    are missing from the Maildir folder (see below).


Idling
======

After the initial synchronisation cycle, plugsink can maintain an open
connection to the IMAP server if the configuration key is set:

    [imap]
    idle = yes

Once a change is made to the Maildir folder, or a change is made to the
IMAP folder, a new synchronisation cycle will be performed.

Send a `SIGINT` signal (Ctrl-C) to the process to tell it to quit.

Send a `SIGUSR1` signal to the process to start a new synchronisation
cycle immediately.


What is synchronised
====================

New messages detected on one side since the last synchronisation cycle will
be copied to the other side, and vice versa.

Flag additions or removals on one side are applied to corresponding messages
on the other side, and vice versa.  The standard Maildir flags are mapped to
the IMAP system flags:

    R       \Answered
    F       \Flagged
    T       \Deleted
    S       \Seen
    D       \Draft

Other IMAP flags are recorded in the database but not otherwise visible as
there is no standard way to express them in Maildir.

plugsink does not permanently delete messages from the Maildir folder.
If a message in the IMAP folder is deleted then the corresponding Maildir
message will be marked as deleted -- the message gains the `T` flag.
If you access the Maildir through a mail client and use its "expunge"
function then it will probably permanently delete the messages so marked.

plugsink does not issue the EXPUNGE command to permanently delete messages
from the IMAP folder.  If a message in the Maildir folder is deleted then
the corresponding message in the IMAP folder will only be marked as deleted
-- the message gains the `\Deleted` flag.  If you access the IMAP folder
through a mail client and use its "expunge" function (or similar) then it
will permanently delete the messages so marked.

Note: GMail has an Auto-Expunge option.  When enabled (the default), a
message will be removed from the IMAP folder as soon as it is marked
deleted.  The message should still be available in another folder (label)
such as "All Mail" or "Trash".  I have this option enabled and it seems
okay.


Mass delete prevention
======================

Consider this sequence of events:

 1. you synchronise a Maildir folder `Foo` with an IMAP folder `RemoteFoo`
 2. you rename `Foo` to `Bar`
 3. you create a empty folder `Foo`, and synchronise the new `Foo` with
    `RemoteFoo` again

The intention here may have been to re-download all the `RemoteFoo` messages
into `Foo`. However, as the state database knows of the files that messages
that previously were in `Foo`, to the program, it looks as though all the
message in `Foo` have been deleted, and therefore all the corresponding
messages in `RemoteFoo` should be marked as well.

To prevent this kind of mishap, plugsink will refuse to proceed if it
discovers that too many (> 50) messages that previously existed in a Maildir
folder have gone missing. If you are sure that you want to continue,
run plugsink with the `--allow-mass-delete=NUM` option to perform a
synchronisation cycle allowing up to NUM deleted files.
The program will quit after one synchronisation cycle.


Debugging
=========

Set the environment variable `DEBUG_IMAP=1` to trace IMAP commands and
responses.


Author
======

Peter Wang <novalazy@gmail.com>
